JAMES: Previously on
12 Monkeys...
JAMES: For you
to create time travel,
you had to lose Hannah.
Or at least
believe that you did.
Dad?
(GUNSHOT)
(GRUNTS)
Even ifyou stop them,
I could just make it again.
I’m too dangerous alive.
You need to get out
of here, find a hole,
and disappear into it.
(MUFFLED GRUNT)
You're insane.
Initiate Splinter Sequence.
It works?
Oh, yeah.
This is my life's work.
CASSIE: When he was
in my head, I saw
a place called Titan.
You and I,
we can go there together.
We kill The Witness.
JENNIFER: What's the natural
predator of the monkey?
Hyena!
We'll take the fight
to them, Cassie!
We have to go Monkey hunting.
(WIND WHOOSHING)
(ELEVATOR BELL DINGS)
(WHISTLING)
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
JENNIFER: Hiya, Tall Man.
Get my note?
PALLID MAN: Jennifer?
JENNIFER: I want you to
take this moment,
and think back
to the day we met.
To the person I was then.
Crazy, wild-eyed,
Jennifer Goines.
(GUN COCKS)
(GUNSHOT)
Well, the good old days
are over.
I’m not a victim anymore.
Hey.
I’ve got
credit cards and the Second
Amendment on my side.
I’m free.
Like a virus in a preschool,
l’m paying it forward
to all the other crazies.
I’ve got the keys to
the zoo and now I’m
springing the cuckoo’s nest.
There's a new pack in town.
Predators with a purpose
and a thirst for vengeance.
Because there’s one
thing I’ve learned,
is that nothing
frees you to be crazy
like learning that you’re not.
My whole life,
people tried to use me,
break me, shape me,
mold me into not me.
Daddy had that
doctor lock me away.
My father wasn’t the only one
he was working for, was he?
(GRUNTS)
Mmm-mmm.
You tried to lock
me in a cage, too.
Like an animal.
So I became one.
(FRENZIED LAUGH)
Guess which animal / became.
Guess. Here’s a hint.
Of all creatures,
great and cuddly,
which is the natural
predator of the monkey?
(JENNIFER LAUGHS)
The hyena.
These are the end times,
Tall Man.
But not for humanity.
I’m coming for you.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
WHITLEY: Scouting team
took these.
MiIIburn Survivors camp,
just north of us,
about a week ago.
The same camp,
three hours ago.
The child you see here
was a grown man
an hour before the storm hit.
What happened to them?
Time driven insane.
The anomalies tore
through the camp,
aging the survivors
hundreds of years one moment,
and reversing it the next.
Chaos.
Temporal storms
are resurging here,
here and here.
They're closing in,
destroying everything
in their path.
We stopped
the paradox in 1975.
It was getting
better out there.
Maybe that was a coincidence.
Well, none of you
seem too sure
about how all of
this really works.
Marcus...
I'm inclined
to agree with Mr. Whitley.
Julian, we know there
was another paradox,
one that we
haven't stopped yet.
All the data points
to a major occurrence
between 1951 and 1973.
Just one more
Primary left to save,
and all this
destruction will end.
Once and for all.
Mr. Cole?
We need to find
that Primary.
I'm gonna go ask
the one person we know
who's dialed into all this.
(GUN COCKS)
RAMSE: Hey.
Hey.
You're back.
How you doing?
Ijust needed to get
out of here for a while.
You know?
You on the mend?
Yeah. Yeah.
Just another one
for the collection,
you know.
Listen, I'm sorry that
I didn't get a Chance
to talk to you
about what happened to Sam.
That's all right.
When we went back to the '70s,
Kyle kept on bringing up
that The Witness
was from our time.
That”
Yeah, he said
a lot of crazy shit.
He mention
a place called Titan?
"Titan"? No, never
heard of it. What is it?
Cassie said that
when The Witness
was inside her head,
that she was also in his.
She thinks that it's a place
where he feels safe.
She never
mentioned that to me.
You see Jennifer,
just ask her for me.
Yeah.
I gotta find The Witness.
I gotta make him pay.
I know.
(MEN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
Primaries, plague, paradoxes
and The Witness.
I didn't come here
to see you do
a magic trick, Jennifer.
This isn't magic.
This is a lesson.
Perception versus deception.
Cassie, Ramse,
Katarina, her daughter,
my daughter.
All of them, distractions.
You keep watching the ball
when you should be
watching the hands.
I'm beginning to
think you get off on this.
There was a time
when you could
have known for sure.
Mmm.
Ah!
What the hell was that for?
I told you to watch the hands.
Screw this.
I can't tell you where
to find the last Primary
back in time.
I never knew.
But there's someone who does.
The Tall Man.
He leads the Army of
the 12 Monkeys now.
How do I find him?
You and me.
In 2016.
You got 30 years
on all of us.
You know how this ends,
don't you?
A wise man once told me
there are many endings.
But the right one
is the one you Choose.
One more thing.
Titan.
JAMES: Yeah.
Do you know about it?
I know that
the search for Titan
only leads to death.
Your friends,
their rage is blinding.
You need to see
what they can't.
Stay the course.
Find the last Primary.
Stop the paradox.
Save the world, Otter Eyes.
She didn't know anything.
The Daughters are nomads.
They've traveled
for miles and miles.
They gotta know something.
Nothing, man. I'm sorry.
Look, you sure
The Witness didn'tjust
put this in your
head to distract you?
This is the first time
you've even mentioned
it to me.
Maybe I was afraid
you'd think I was crazy.
JAMES: That's not what
I'm talking about.
Look, we got work to finish.
Mr. Cole,
the window's Closing.
We will find him.
Together. Okay?
As soon as we stop
the storms out there.
I'm not waiting for that.
You want to pay him back
for what he did
to Sam and you.
I get that.
We will pay him back.
First,
we need to focus on this.
Focus on your mission, right?
(SIGHS) Look, the Tall Man
is the only one
who knows how to
stop the final paradox.
I'm gonna find him,
I'm gonna make him talk.
CASSIE: And then what?
He's the man who
killed your father.
I hope you get
your vengeance, Cole,
while we all
wait here for ours.
Initiate Splinter Sequence.
(MACHINE POWERING UP)
(MACHINE POWERING DOWN)
All right, Hyenas.
Listen up.
We've traveled
a long ways together.
Fought many battles
and won great victories.
(LAUGHTER)
Now, we must fight again!
Yeah!
JENNIFER: Back to business!
Twelve Monkey
killing business!
(LAUGHTER)
And business is what?
ALL: Booming!
We've done well,
but now is not
the time to be resting
on our laurels.
No, it's time for a re-up,
corner kids.
Yeah!
JENNIFER: Tonight's mission...
(ALARM BLARING)
They're here. They found us.
(GRUNTING)
(GUN COCKS)
(PANTING)
Otter Eyes.
This is mission control.
JAMES: You've been busy.
About time, don't you think?
Take the fight to
them for a Change, right?
We've got bigger
problems in 2044.
Green to red?
Bad to worse.
Time's broken.
Storms are
eating up the future,
working their way back to now.
(GASPS)
Oh, Shit!
Peggy?
I asked you to
please be careful
with the grenades.
We got a discount
for a reason.
This is a new level of crazy.
Crazy is as crazy does,
and this crazy is
getting shit done.
Him.
I need to talk to him.
He has the answers I need.
Yeah,
he is really well guarded.
I mean, he never
leaves the house
without that guy.
Jennﬁer
He shouldn't be here.
Relax. We're on
the same team.
JENNIFER: It's okay, Vanessa.
He's family.
Where did you
find them, again?
You want to start
an antisocial organization,
you need antisocial
personalities, right?
Sprung them from
a handful of institutions.
(CHUCKLING)
I mean, sure,
a few of them are
borderline personality,
but very dedicated.
You know, it's like The A-Team
with all Murdocks.
They're like me.
They're just misunderstood.
Ifreed them, Ifeed them
and now I lead them.
We're like family.
She's our mother.
Right.
Oh, Hannah.
I wanted to
return this to you.
But it's yours.
We don't have things.
Mother says it has
sentimental value for you.
You were born at
Lenox Hill Hospital
in New York City.
My father, your grandfather,
he stitched your name on here.
(CHUCKLING)
He had never stitched
a thing in his life.
What about my father?
What was he like?
He had an overdeveloped
sense of self-preservation.
And ambition.
He built this machine.
And I made itwork.
You used science
to Change time.
To save my life.
I was told that when
I was a small Child,
I was found
floating down a river
on the back of a golden swan
that I had tamed.
Now, Mother says
I was brought to her
because of you,
a woman who used a machine
to Cheat death.
No, to save you,
my daughter.
And billions.
I like the swan story better.
No one dies.
Science killed the world.
Now, your machine is
going to finish off
what's left of us.
This is every record
we have, and no mention
of Titan anywhere.
Maybe Cole was right.
Maybe it's not real.
You said you felt it.
Yes.
He's there.
We just gotta keep looking.
(SIGHS) Ramse,
even if this place exists,
it could be
anywhere in the world,
and we don't
have maps or records
from after the plague.
What we need is something
that doesn't exist in 2044.
We need
a database of some kind.
Hannah?
What is a database?
It's a place where
information is collected
and stored.
Like The Keeper.
What's that?
He's like your database.
He collects information.
The history of what happened
after the old ones died.
Can you take us to him?
He can be dangerous.
Mother has forbidden us
from trading with The Keeper,
but I could tell
you how to get there.
What does he trade in?
Truth.
(BLOWS)
You're not going alone.
You're concerned
for my safety now?
No.
But I know that
ifyou figure out
where The Witness is,
you're not coming back for me.
Get outta here.
You're not the only
one out for blood.
The Witness used me.
Keeper isn't
the only dangerous
thing out there.
You're not immune,
and it's a long drive.
Shotgun.
PALLID MAN: These Hyenas
burned six of our labs.
Now we have nothing.
That's him.
How did you get this?
We left him a phone,
so he'd know who's
been screwing with him.
He used it?
No.
But he kept it.
Didn't know we'd Chipped it.
So anytime he's here,
we get stuff like this.
Listen.
PALLID MAN: We cannot proceed
without Oliver Peters.
The virus was destroyed.
He’s the only who
can recreate it.
We need M510.
Peters.
AKA the guy who
created the virus
that kills us all.
We've been looking for him.
Cassie told him to
get out of Dodge.
He's long gone by now.
Or is he?
Peters was adopted.
My father helped track down
his birth parents.
They were dead,
but there was a brother.
After Peters disappeared,
so did his money.
And that long-lost brother
goes from a studio in Flatbush
to six bedrooms in Sag Harbor.
I'm doing Dateline here.
Try and keep up.
Jennifer, what's the point?
Brother dearest
just got a newjob
as the nightjanitor
at Hudson University Hospital.
(SIRENS WAILING)
Boo!
Whoa!
Don't hurt me, please!
I'm just a janitor!
I'm just a janitor.
Humility.
That's a new look for you.
PETERS: No, not you.
Jennifer?
What are you doing here?
With him?
What part of "run
away and disappear"
didn't you understand?
Where was I gonna go?
South America? China?
They have people
everywhere.
My brother, he helped me.
Helped you with what?
What are you working on here?
It's a vaccine.
For the virus.
It's still theoretical,
but I needed to find a place
with the right equipment.
Tall Man's looking for you.
No.
Yes.
PETERS: He got everything
he needed from me.
I gave him the virus.
We destroyed it.
Put him behind schedule.
Now to get back on schedule,
he needs you.
(EXCLAIMS)
What the hell are you doing?
No, Cole.
Cole, he's the only one
who can engineer the virus.
This is bigger than the virus.
We're talking
about fixing time.
Tall Man's
the key to all that.
We finally have
something that he wants.
We can use him.
Use him for what?
Bait.
Trying to kill yourself?
What would
happen if I died here
in 2044 anyway?
I'm the one who
starts all this, right?
VVhenlleave
the message for Cole.
But if I never do,
then does any of this happen?
Somebody else
would leave a message.
Cole believes that
time needs us to save it.
Which sounds...
Soundser
something Cole would say.
What does that say?
It's Latin.
It means "a liar".
What did Hannah
call this place?
Domus Veritatis.
House of truth.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(ELECTRONIC WHIRRING)
(METAL CLANGS)
(GUNFIRE)
Drop your weapon.
We just wanna
ask you a question.
Drop your weapon.
(GUNS CLATTER)
Do you remember when Mother
would speak of the Red Forest?
Promise that we
were important.
That the cycle
would lead us to
a world without time,
without death.
Your father gave
his life for it.
OLIVIA: Why hasn't it come?
The Witness...
Works in
mysterious ways, dear.
As do you.
I never expected you
to embrace technology
this way.
PALLID MAN: We've spent
far too long looking at
the past for answers.
Your leadership proved that.
It's time to
look to the future.
In recent weeks,
the Markridge Group
has been under siege
after a series of explosions
took out seven of their
research facilities.
And now they’re bracing
for yet another impact
as former Markridge employee,
Oliver Peters,
has made allegations
that the company
is guilty of...
Peters has
finally come up for air.
Peters,
who has been in hiding,
will hold a press conference
to expose what he claims...
The Witness didn't
foresee this, did he?
Did he?
NEWSREADER: ...dangerous
subversive groups.
We ’re awaiting...
He lies.
(GAGS)
(MUFFLED GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
Where are you going?
PALLID MAN: To secure
our future.
(PALLID MAN
WHISTLING)
We've got eyes.
Now, we just wait
for the Tall Man to show up.
That's right.
And when he gets here,
everybody has
to be cool, okay?
You can all
take a crack at him
after I get what I need.
You, you, it's all about you.
Ever since you showed up.
Whoa.
What are they
doing over there?
Getting him ready
for his Close-up.
We're not
actually going through
with the press conference.
But it was your idea.
You said...
It was part of the trap,
all right.
I never said itwas
a good idea to let people
know the apocalypse is coming.
Don't worry, Cole. Be happy.
What is wrong with you?
All of you?
What...
You wanna tell
the world the truth?
That there's no hope,
that they're all gonna die?
I've seen what happens
when people think
their days are numbered.
It's ugly.
We're not speeding that up.
People need to know the truth.
No, they don't.
I know what happens.
We turn on each other.
We become animals.
Real ones, not like
you're pretending to be.
Hey, Cole.
I get that you're afraid.
We are entering
uncharted territory.
But old me told you
to come here, right?
Yeah. So?
What do you think it took
to face the Monkeys head-on?
Fearlessness, right?
Fearlessness that
comes from knowing
that everything
is gonna be okay.
Old me is proof
that I live to
fight another day.
What about everybody else?
Hmm?
Who's gonna save them
if your little
crew here is wrong?
We don't take orders from you.
(JENNIFER BREATHING RAPIDLY)
Vanessa!
This was a sisterhood.
It's been corrupted.
Don't point
the gun at my friend!
(BEEPS)
(SCREAMING)
(GUNS COCKING)
Clear!
You liberated us, Jennifer.
Opened our eyes
to a threat we
didn't know existed.
Now, we have to open
everyone else's eyes.
When the Tall Man comes,
the Tall Man dies.
Then we tell
the world the truth.
We'll take it from here.
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(GRUNTING)
(SHUSHING)
You're The Keeper?
I am.
As the world was dying,
they went for the guns.
Then the grocery stores,
and so on.
Nobody came for the books,
nobody cared.
Until the winter, of course,
when the fires needed feeding.
So you saved them.
Mankind did for its words
what it could not do
for itself.
Digital immortality.
Iwalked into
the headquarters ofAmazon,
the Pentagon,
and collected those
precious ones and zeros.
Protected history.
Now I record
the events of the rebirth.
My terms are simple.
I shall not lie and
neither shall you.
The machine will
confirm your honesty.
We're looking for
records of a City, I think.
Called Titan.
Jesus, Cassie.
Why do you hate this woman?
And she, you?
What are you talking about?
(WHIRRING)
(ELECTRICITY ZAPPING)
(GRUNTING)
People died because of liars.
"There's no need to panic.
We're working on a cure.
"Quarantine
zones will save us."
Their lies doomed us.
I hate him
because he's selfish.
Because he let
countless people die
to save one.
(ELECTRONIC WHIRRING)
Lie.
What is the real reason?
I hate him because
someone I cared about,
someone I sacrificed
everything for,
Chose him over me.
(DEVICE BEEPS)
And you?
Same.
(DEVICE BEEPS)
Truth.
(lNDlSTlNCT CONVERSATIONS)
(SIRENS WAILING)
He's here.
Headed upstairs to
the maintenance floor.
He's in the elevator.
Hyenas, sixth floor.
Keep an eye on them.
Let's move.
I can't believe
how many times
I defended you.
You recruit all
these Iunatics,
you give them weapons
and then you lose complete
control over them.
It's unbelievable.
Did you know the otter
is a branch of
the weasel family?
(LAUGHS)
No, I didn't know that,
Jennﬁer
JENNIFER: Sad soulful eyes.
Tiny backstabbing hands.
Is that what the voices
in your head tell you?
I didn't try to
control my Hyenas,
control freak.
I told you already,
we were like a family.
"Control"?
You can't
control them, Jennifer,
because they're just
as insane as you are!
I told you already,
we're like a family.
(GRUNTS)
He's still in the elevator.
Let's take the stairs.
Oh, aboutwhat I
said over there...
Yeah, yeah.
Let's just go
get the Tall Man.
We can hug it out later.
(ELEVATOR BELL DINGS)
Where is he?
VANESSA: Helen?
The Tall Man is a no show.
Can you spot him
on the monitors?
JAMES: Maybe he went down.
Helen?
(GUN COCKS)
Oh.
I see, a trap.
James, did you lure me here
just to shoot me?
No, asshole.
I'm here to save you.
(GRUNTS)
(GROANS)
You killed my father.
You killed some fathers,
starting with hers.
She seems to
have gotten over it.
Oh, it's okay,
rest your hands.
I'm not going anywhere.
The Messengers
went back in time
to paradox Primaries.
We know about Tommy.
We know about Kyle.
There's one
more we don't know.
And you're gonna
tell me who that is.
Messenger business
was not left up to me.
Mothering's more in
Olivia's wheelhouse.
(MUFFLED GRUNT)
(GASPS)
Plan B.
We still got
a press conference.
Maybe this isn't
such a good idea.
You're the reason
the world dies, Peters.
Least you could do
is warn them about it.
Okay.
JAMES: The paradoxes
in the past.
1944, 1975.
When's the last one?
(SCREAMING)
VVhen?
'57.
1957.
Upstate New York.
A paradox so powerful,
it destroys
the fabric of time.
You know, at least locally.
Enough to maintain
erosion forever.
The birth of the Red Forest,
try to stop it but you can't.
'Cause it's already happened.
It's like
a memory of tomorrow.
(STAMMERS) What time is it?
'Cause at 8:00,
Oliver Peters was
gonna divulge information
very damaging to
me and my people.
REPORTER 1: Peters.
REPORTER 2: Peters.
Good evening.
My name is Oliver Peters,
and I'm here to tell the truth
about the Markridge Group
and its role in
the development
of biological weapons
for a ruthless and secretive
fringe organization.
PALLID MAN: We haven't needed
Peters for some time.
We already have M510
under lock and key.
J EN NIFER: Distractions.
You keep watching the ball
when you should be
watching the hands.
Where's your coat?
PALLID MAN: You and your
Hyenas were a nuisance,
but a nuisance that
could become a threat.
Hyenas are the natural
predator of a monkey.
What's the natural
predator of the hyena?
You see, the natural predator
ofa hyena is man.
We've got a situation.
We need to Clear the building.
Evolution, Jennifer.
I took part in research
related to extremely
dangerous bioengineering.
Vanessa.
PETERS: As a Markridge
employee...
Get outta there. It's a trap.
I can't hear you.
Get out! Get out now!
(ALL CLAMORING)
PETERS: The virus
is called Virus M510!
(EXPLOSION)
(HIGH-PITCHED TONE)
Uh... We’re not sure
what’s happened.
Uh, there may have been...
There's been an explosion.
I ’ve been told
that there has been
some sort of explosion.
This is just coming in.
This is breaking news.
That was a hospital.
I've evolved myself.
Learned so many things.
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
You know, I know that
a cell phone can be used
to eavesdrop on someone.
(CELL PHONE CONTINUES RINGING)
But did you know
that also they could be
used to track
someone's location?
(JENNIFER YELLS)
(GUNFIRE CONTINUES)
(GRUNTS)
What's that?
It's a CIA
Intelligence Report.
Part of
the Classified archives.
Afraid I couldn't
collect anyone
to declassify it.
But it is what you came for.
The only record
with even a mention
of a place called Titan.
Thank you.
You know, whatever
battle you're about
to walk into together,
it won't be your
hatred for each other
that will divide you,
itwill be the lies
you tell to camouflage it.
East Germany.
1961.
And a doctor named Kirschner.
Not a lot to go on.
A name, a place and a date.
Put them together.
And we've got a new mission.
There ain't no "we",
lady.
The only one who
wants The Witness dead
as much as you is me.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Here.
I don't need another partner
with a death wish.
(SNIFFS)
(SNIFFLES)
Hey.
Wasn't sure what
you wanted to do
with this little guy.
Jerry?
I can't take care of him.
(SOBBING) I can't
take care of anything.
Listen, I know how you feel.
Okay?
(SNIFFLES)
This is the price
of taking people on.
But I didn't pay it.
They didn't deserve to die.
I made them Hyenas.
They were my fault.
(CRYING) And all
the people in the hospital.
(SNIFFLING)
Hundreds of people.
Cole, is this what
I become in the future?
A woman who's failed everyone?
No.
Then tell me what happens.
How does this end?
There are many endings.
Which is the right one?
The right one
is the one you choose.
Is the one you Choose.
(GROANS)
Time to go?
See you soon.
(SNIFFLES)
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Wow. You weren't kidding.
Jennﬁer
You must be Hannah.
If you'll excuse me...
JUHan.JuHan.
Should I not be here?
For many years,
Dr. Adler and I
shared a common bond.
The loss of a Child.
And now that's Changed.
I didn't mean to
offend you earlier.
Mother says
most people are not
accustomed to directness.
I don't really
understand why not but...
Hannah.
There's so much
that we don't know
about each other.
I'd rather not
waste any more time
with pretty lies.
(CHUCKLES) Ijust realized
"Hannah" might not be
the name that
Jennifer calls you.
She's always called me Zeit.
Zeit. (CHUCKLES)
That's German.
You know what that means?
It means "time."
(CHUCKLES SOFTLY)
Mother is not
without her sense of humor.
Oh.
You asked me
about your father.
I think he looks like you.
He was quite
a brilliant man.
He only ever
gave me two things.
This machine and you.
But you were the only thing
lever loved him for.
Thank you.
If you like,
you may call me Hannah.
ELLIOT: Another
brilliant mind lost.
I know what that's like.
'Cause I could
have been the man
that science
mistook for a magician.
Me and Tesla
and Ben Franklin
and his kite, you know.
But nope, 'Cause
they pull your funding.
They find one dead body
in your facility and...
(IMITATES EXPLOSION)
They mothball the future.
And then they discredit you.
(SCOFFS)
And I'm not dead,
but I might as well be.
Do you believe in
resurrection, Doctor?
Man, I'm afraid
I've become a realist
in my failed state.
Enough to know that
this idea that you're
talking about is impossible.
How so?
The technology
doesn't exist, man.
It would take...
I don't know, shit, decades.
Unless you, you know...
Regardless,
let me ask you something.
Even if I could
build this for you,
why would you want it?
Insurance.
(SCOFFS) Against what?
The future.
(CHUCKLING) Huh.
This project is massive.
It is.
That's why we're
calling it Titan.